  Review: ‘My Life as a Zucchini,’ an Oscar Nominee With Depth and Soul


My Life as a Zucchini

  * Directed by Claude Barras
  * Animation, Family
  * PG-13
  * 1h 10m

Find Tickets

<http://www.imdb.com/showtimes/title/tt2321405?ref_=ref_ext_NYT>

By A. O. SCOTT <https://www.nytimes.com/by/a-o-scott>FEB. 23, 2017

Continue reading the main story

<#story-continues-1> Share This Page Continue reading the main story

<#story-continues-1>

Photo
//
A scene from the animated film “My Life as a Zucchini,” directed by
Claude Barras. Credit Gkids

The boy’s given name is Icare, the French version of Icarus, which has
some pretty heavy mythological connotations
<http://www.poetrybyheart.org.uk/poems/musee-des-beaux-arts/>. That may
be why he prefers to be called Courgette (Zucchini). It’s more down to
earth. He spends his time flying a homemade kite from the window of an
attic room decorated with his mother’s empty beer cans. There are quite
a few of those. Zucchini’s father, whose likeness decorates the kite, is
long gone, and an unfortunate accident soon removes Zucchini’s mother
from the picture.

Zucchini, who is 9, is sent to a group home in the countryside, where he
falls in with other abused, neglected and abandoned children. Perhaps
because “My Life as a Zucchini,”
<https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bd2TOf1kmfk> directed by Claude Barras
and based on a book by Gilles Paris <http://www.gillesparis.net/>, comes
from France (and Switzerland), the orphanage is a place of kindness
rather than terror. The French republican imagination assumes that
institutions are benevolent. Wickedness resides in individuals, in this
case the parents whose failures and outright crimes have damaged the
innocence of Zucchini and his new friends.

//
By GKIDS Play Video 1:43

Trailer: ‘My Life As a Zucchini’

Advertisement
LIVE
00:00
00:00
skip ad
Video


        Trailer: ‘My Life As a Zucchini’

A preview of the film. By GKIDS on Publish Date February 10, 2017. Image
courtesy of Internet Video Archive. Watch in Times Video »
<https://www.nytimes.com/video/movies/100000004885696/trailer-my-life-as-a-zucchini.html?action=click&contentCollection=movies&module=embedded&region=caption&pgtype=article>

Also, because “My Life as a Zucchini” is an animated film — a loving
work of stop-motion cartoon handicraft and a long-shot Oscar
<http://oscar.go.com/nominees/animated-feature-film/my-life-as-a-zucchini>
nominee — it is more charming than grim. The orphan at large in the
world is a fixture of folklore and literature as well as social-service
case files, and Mr. Barras’s film, with its bigheaded, asymmetrical
modeling-clay figures and off-kilter picture-book backdrops, explores a
harsh situation with gentle whimsy.

Still, a bit of caution may be in order for parents. While nothing shown
onscreen is graphic or disturbing, the movie is frank about the way the
characters have been treated and also about their natural curiosity
regarding the adult world. Viewers who have read contemporary
young-adult literature will be able to handle it, though their parents
may feel uncomfortable at times. Children of Zucchini’s age or younger
might be freaked out.

The point of the story, in any case, is not horror but healing. It’s a
bittersweet celebration of friendship and empathy, as Zucchini makes
peace with a bully named Simon and develops a crush on a newcomer named
Camille. There is an enchanting ski trip, a smattering of pranks and
misunderstandings and a touch of suspense, all rendered in expressive
and imaginative visual detail. The animation technique is in some ways
cruder than the digital dazzle that kids see all the time, but also more
soulful. The round, wide-eyed faces of the orphans are not as perfectly
detailed as those of their counterparts in some of this movie’s Oscar
rivals, but they are enigmatic and individual in ways that are hard to
forget.


My Life as a Zucchini

Find Tickets
<http://www.imdb.com/showtimes/title/tt2321405?ref_=ref_ext_NYT>

  *

    Director Claude Barras
  *

    Writers Céline Sciamma, Germano Zullo, Claude Barras, Morgan Navarro
  *

    Stars Gaspard Schlatter, Sixtine Murat, Paulin Jaccoud, Michel
    Vuillermoz, Raul Ribera
  *

    Rating PG-13
  *

    Running Time 1h 10m
  *

    Genres Animation, Family
  *
    //

    <http://www.imdb.com/title/tt2321405/?ref_=ref_ext_NYT> Movie data
    powered by IMDb.com
    Last updated: Feb 23, 2017

My Life as a Zucchini
Rated PG-13 for allusions to drug use, violence, sexuality and other
grown-up stuff. In two versions: English; and French, with English
subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 10 minutes.

